(quick swishing)
Right now, when we click
on the Orders page, you'll see that
we don't have anything so let's go ahead
and make that page.
Actually, this is probably
a very straightforward one
and I challenge you to code
this one up yourself.
Right, you gotta the page.
You gotta make the ordered list component
that's gotta have a query to the backend.
You gotta write the query in the resolver
on the backend and, then, once
you have the data you gotta loop
through it and display it on the page.
So, try to do this one yourself
and, then, watch the video.
Welcome back, here we are.
Let's get ready to do it.
We're gonna go to our page here
and make a lower case orders with an s.js.
I'm just gonna open up my order.js
and take everything from there.
Paste it into there.
We're going to make an orderList component.
That's gonna come from OrderList
and, then, when we actually put out
the component, it's going to just be OrderList.
It doesn't need any props passed to it
because it's going to query the currently
logged in user in order to get that.
Okay, now, what we need to do is
make a new component called OrderList.
So, we'll go under our components directory.
Make a new file capital o, order, capital l,
list.js.
We'll make our component in here.
At the top, we're gonna need a couple things.
So, let's import Query from react-apollo.
We need formatDistance from date f functions.
Gonna import the Link from next/link
from styled-components,
gql from graphql-tag,
formatMoney
and, finally, some styles
called OrderItemStyles from styles directory,
OrderItemStyles.
Something's goofing up, form, from.
There we go.
Let's just get everything working.
We'll put a paragraph tag on here.
So, that's Order List and we're gonna
get an error.
Cannot resolve /styles/OrderItemStyles.
Why not?
Oh, it's not up a level.
It's in a level.
There we go.
So, we've got the component showing up
on the page.
Next up, we need to write a query
to pull all of the user's order.
So, let's head to our backend here.
Open up our schema.
We're going to get the orders and the input
for the orders is actually going to have
one of the inputs that have on the server side.
So, if we look real quick at our generated
prisma.graphql and we look open, look at
our type Query, you'll see that we have
our orders on here somewhere.
There we go and all of the different inputs
are you can have where.
So, you could filter them based on
what you want.
You could order them.
You could OrderOrder you inputs.
You could skip a whole bunch et cetera, et cetera.
You can just take this entire line right here,
and paste it over top of here, but really
the only one that we care about here
is the orderBy.
It's worth maybe leaving it in
if you would like to have some more powerful
queries in the future, but I'm gonna take it out
just 'cause I know that this application
doesn't need any of these.
I just wanna grab all of the orders.
Maybe, if the user had hundreds of orders,
you might wanna paginate it and get into that,
but I'm not worrying about that right now.
So, we have these orders.
Let's go into our Query.js
and write a resolver for that
and at this one it's pretty simple.
So, first we're gonna get the user's id.
So, let's pull it out, userId.
We'll pull it out of the request.
Now, we'll check if they're logged in
and then, finally, we just have to return
ctx.db.query.orders.
The where is going to be the user.
The id is equal to userId and, then,
we'll pass along the info as well.
Now, we'll head back to our client side
OrderList and write up that query.
It's equal to gql.
Inside of that we'll have a query called
USER_ORDERS_QUERY.
Inside of that, we'll grab the orders.
We will orderBy createdAt_ descending.
So, we'll have the newest ones first
and, then, inside of that for each order
we just want the id, the total,
the createdAt and, for each item that we have
we want the id, the title, the price,
description, quantity
and the image and, of course, we can go here
and write up a Query and the query is equal to
the USER_ORDERS_QUERY.
There's no variables that need to be passed here.
Give yourself and arrow function.
We'll destructure data and we'll destructure
that one level deeper into the orders.
Then, we'll also grab the loading in the error.
Inside of here, we'll say if loading
return, loading...
that's if (error) return <Error.
I don't believe we imported error did we?
Nope.
Otherwise, let's console.log the orders
and let's just put a paragraph tag in there.
You have order.length orders.
Cannot read property 'me'.
I think we broke something on the backend.
It's telling us that we have
something has defined in resolvers
but not in our schema.
So, we defined orders here in our resolver
but we didn't define it in, yes we did.
Maybe I just have to save it.
Ah, I accidentally deleted order.
That took in an id and returned an Order.
So, when I was writing orders,
I accidentally replaced by other one
and it was finding the order resolver here
and saying hey that's not in the schema.
So, that's helpful.
One more error here.
Cannot read 'orders' of undefined.
So, they way that I will debug this
is we'll take the destructing out,
console.log d, data and just return
and then delete the orders.length from here.
Now, we'll see what kind of data
we're actually getting back.
Expected order type found createdAt_ descending.
Ah, I see.
We forget the d.
Isn't that awesome?
Did you mean createdAt?
I forget the d at created.
So, nothing was returned from rendor.
That's probably fine.
Guess we wanted to put a return here.
Now, you see that there's
an array of our order.
So, we can take this data and put it back
and destructure it into a variable
called orders.
We can console.log the orders here,
and, then, we can return the orders.length.
There we go.
You have four orders.
All right, we're in good shape.
So, we have the query.
Everything seems to be working just fine.
At this point, now, it's just the ability
to loop over all of our data.
So, let's get into that now,
and we'll just return.
Inside of that we'll have a div and, then,
h2 that says you have orders.length orders.
Then, I'm just gonna make a quick
little grid up here.
So, const
orderUL is equal to styled.ul.
Inside of that, we'll display grid,
grid-gap 4rem
and grid-template-columns.
Gonna be repeat auto-fit,
minmax 40% 1fr.
Okay, then we go down here and take that
Ul that we just made and loop over them all.
For each one, we want OrderItemStyles.
That's just gonna be a list item
that I've already defined
in the styles directory.
Then, we want a link tag.
That's next link that will have a href
that has a pathname of /order
and a query id of order.id.
Inside your link, you always need
an anchor tag that has no href on it.
Let's just output hi inside there.
So, if this works, I should get,
OrderUL is not defined.
What did I name it up here?
There we go.
So, I've got four orders that I've made so far.
You might have more or less.
Doesn't really matter, but you see that
for every order that we have, it's looping out
and outputting hi.
So, for each of the order, now we just need
to output all of the data about it.
So, I'm gonna give myself a div.
So I'm gonna go inside this link here
and give myself a div
with the className order-meta.
Inside of that, a paragraph tag,
and it's gonna tell us how many items we have.
So, we can take the order.items.reduce,
and I'm just gonna use a,b in place
of item and tally here.
I'm gonna return a + b. Quantity.
Start with zero.
That tells me how many items are
in each order.
This one has 15 items.
The rest just have one item, and then below
that I could say items.
Before we forget, we're gonna put
a key on here of order.id,
and I believe that if we click on them
they should go the individual order page.
That didn't work.
Oh, I think it's lowercase n.
These little things'll get you.
Oh oh, look at this.
Beautiful, that's showing us how
many items are in it.
If I go back, I see all of my orders, good.
Let's keep on templating out.
Below this paragraph, we'll have a p
that says order.item.length.
Another paragraph, we will use
our formatDistance function
and we'll pass, formatDistance will
tell you like how long ago something happened.
So, we'll say order.createdAt.
That's when it was happened,
and then we can just pass that new date
and that's right now.
Then, should tell us in human readable,
hey this happened two days ago.
The other ones happened two or three hours ago.
That's really nice.
I love that date functions library.
I use it all the time.
Next, we will take our formatMoney function,
and pass the order.total.
So, that's all the data about
that specific order, and then below
that we can also show some images that we have.
So, right below this div give yourself
another div that have a class of images,
and we'll take the order.items and map over
each of the item inside of it.
Gonna take the item and, for each one
of those, we'll return an image tag.
First, we'll give it a key
that's item.id.
Source is gonna be the item.image
and the alt is gonna be the item.title.
Boom and I have some CSS that, regardless
of how many items you actually have in here,
it will nicely stretch them all the way across.
So, that's our Orders page showing us
how many order we have.
If we want, we can click through
to those and see all of the information
in a little bit detail on that specific order.
So, that's it for displaying orders on the page.
Let's jump into the next section now.